In this video, you
will learn to describe
how antivirus and
anti-malware programs detect,
block, and remove viruses and
malware from infected systems.
Describe the purpose of
malware definitions
or signatures.
Next time, we will discuss
a little bit about
anti-virus and anti-malware.
So an antivirus is a specialized
software that can detect,
prevent, and even destroy
computer viruses or malware.
This specialized software
use model with definitions.
They're basically
like signatures for
identifying malicious
software or malware.
Those smaller definitions are
constantly being updated
by vendors and usually
the vendors are the ones that
send out these updates or
these smaller model definition to
the antivirus software itself.
They basically scan
the systems and
they search for matches
against those
smaller definitions.
So for example, we get
one file infected,
you will actually match
a hash for example,
a md5 hash that it's already
recognizes a malware.
So the empty virus will either
delete that file, put
it in quarantine,
or just file and you user it to
alert the new user that this file
is infective or
might be infective.
Antivirus can sit locally
on a computer like
a whole antivirus.
The goals with be
a narrower anti-virus system.
The most common one
that we'll encounter,
it's a host-based
anti-virus system
that is actually connected
to a centralized server.